

GROUP 2:
                   CLIENT-SITE VULNERAVILITIES

    Client-site vulnerabilities are vulnerabilities that affect the client or the target victim.

 There are various types of client-site vulnerabilities but we will forcus more on XSS Vulnerability.
  
1-) XSS ( Cross-Site Scripting ):

       It is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to see the interactions that users have with a vulnerable application. It allows an attacker to masquerede as a victim user

and carry out actions that the actual user is able to perform and access any of the users data.
  
      It is the 3rd most affecting  client-site vulnerabilities affecting users on websites applications now our days


      A-) HOW XSS WORKS:

 XSS works by manipulating a vulnerable web site so that it returns malicious javascript/html script to users.

     B-) WHAT IS XSS USED FOR:

 - To impersonate or act as the actual user.

 - Carryong out actions that the real user is able to perform.

 - Reading data that the user is able to access.

 - Capturing the users login credentials like passwords, username, cookies and so on.

 - Injecting trojan functionality into the web site.

    C-) THE IMPACT OF XSS ON APPLICATIONS WEB PAGES:

 In an application holding sensitive data such as banking transactions, emails and so on the impact will usually be serious.

     TYPES OF XSS VULNERABILITY

 There are three ( 3 ) types namely;

 1- Reflected XSS.

 2- Stored XSS.

 3- DOM-Based XSS ( Document Object Model )

  
  1-REFLECTED XSS:

     It is a type of XSS where the malicious script / payload is injected in the current HTTP  request comming from the client. Reflected XSS is type which needs the client to clck on 

the link of the malicious code / payload before the code executes in the client web browser. 
  

  The XSS code injected in the request is seen reflecting on the browser and thats why its called  relected.
  
N.B1; Before going ahead it is important to know the types of request.

  TYPES OF REQUEST 

 a) GET Request

 b) POST Request

      Both GET and POST request are HTTP methods used to send data between a browser and a web server 
  
  N.B2;The following are the differences between the GET and the POST request.

  FETURES                                        GET Request                                       POST Request
 
 - Data location                            - In the URL ( Visible )                             - In the request body ( hidden )
  
 - Data length                              - Limited                                            - Unlimited

 - Purpose                                  - Retrieve data ( retrieve request )                 - Send/submit data

 _ Security                                 - Less secured                                       - More secured
 
 - History                                  - Stored in browser                                  - Not store

 - Data type                                - Text only                                          - Text + binary

 2- STORED XSS:
      
     This XSS is more dangerous than reflected XSS because the malicious code is stored in the web site , stored XSS does not need the user/target to click the link before the code 

executes. 
 
 EXAMPLE EXPLAINATION: In a web site where users comment on the services they recieved, an attacker comes to that same web site and write his/her own comment and add a malicious code

 in the comment and save it. Effect;
                              
                                  - Any other user who enters that same website to write a comment , the malicious code executes automatically when the website is open and by that action

the token sessions and cookies is accessible by the attacker in his or her machine.

  3-DOM-Based XSS  ( Document Object Model)

   Def: DOM-Based XSS arises when a javascript/html code takes data from the client supplied inputs ( session tokens) and passes it to a sink that performs dynamic code execution in the DOM

                    DOM-Based XSS is different from reflected XSS in the sense that when the user enters the application the script does not get directly reflected in the page but the 

entered application uses some javascript to read the search bar/search field an write it in an element within the HTML Document.
  WHAT IS A SINK;
           The innerHTML is dangerous HTML sink that takes a string and pass it to html.
